besu-plugins/linea-sequencer/docs/plugins.md, before:

# Linea plugins

## Shared components

### Profitability calculator
The profitability calculator is a shared component, that is used to check if a tx is profitable.
It's applied, with different configuration to:
1. `linea_estimateGas` endpoint
2. Tx validation for the txpool (if tx profitability check is enabled)
3. Tx selection during block creation

#### CLI options

| Command Line Argument                                 | Default Value |
|-------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `--plugin-linea-fixed-gas-cost-wei`                   | 0             |
| `--plugin-linea-variable-gas-cost-wei`                | 1_000_000_000 |
| `--plugin-linea-extra-data-pricing-enabled`           | false         |
| `--plugin-linea-min-margin`                           | 1.0           |
| `--plugin-linea-estimate-gas-min-margin`              | 1.0           |
| `--plugin-linea-tx-pool-min-margin`                   | 0.5           |
| `--plugin-linea-extra-data-set-min-gas-price-enabled` | true          |


### Module line count validator
The Module line count validator is a shared component, that is used to check if a tx exceeds any of the configured line count limits.
It is used in:
1. `linea_estimateGas` endpoint
2. Tx validation for the txpool (if tx simulation is enabled)
3. Tx selection during block creation

#### CLI options

| Command Line Argument                                 | Default Value        |
|-------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|
| `--plugin-linea-module-limit-file-path`               | moduleLimitFile.toml |
| `--plugin-linea-over-line-count-limit-cache-size`     | 10_000               |


### L1<>L2 bridge

These values are just passed to the ZkTracer

#### CLI Options

| Command Line Argument                  | Default Value |
|----------------------------------------|---------------|
| `--plugin-linea-l1l2-bridge-contract`  |               |
| `--plugin-linea-l1l2-bridge-topic`     |               |


## Sequencer

### Transaction selection - LineaTransactionSelectorPlugin
This plugin extends the standard transaction selection protocols employed by Besu for block creation. 
It leverages the `TransactionSelectionService` to manage and customize the process of transaction selection. 
This includes setting limits such as `TraceLineLimit`, `maxBlockGas`, and `maxCallData`, and check the profitability
of a transaction.
The selectors are in the package `net.consensys.linea.sequencer.txselection.selectors`.

#### CLI options

| Command Line Argument                                  | Default Value        |
|--------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|
| `--plugin-linea-max-block-calldata-size`               | 70000                |
| `--plugin-linea-module-limit-file-path`                | moduleLimitFile.toml |
| `--plugin-linea-over-line-count-limit-cache-size`      | 10_000               |
| `--plugin-linea-max-block-gas`                         | 30_000_000L          |
| `--plugin-linea-unprofitable-cache-size`               | 100_000              |
| `--plugin-linea-unprofitable-retry-limit`              | 10                   |


### Transaction validation - LineaTransactionPoolValidatorPlugin

This plugin extends the default transaction validation rules for adding transactions to the
transaction pool. It leverages the `PluginTransactionValidatorService` to manage and customize the
process of transaction validation.
This includes setting limits such as `TraceLineLimit`, `maxTxGasLimit`, and `maxTxCallData`, and checking the profitability
of a transaction.
The validators are in the package `net.consensys.linea.sequencer.txpoolvalidation.validators`.

#### CLI options

| Command Line Argument                                    | Default Value     |
|----------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|
| `--plugin-linea-deny-list-path`                          | lineaDenyList.txt |
| `--plugin-linea-max-tx-gas-limit`                        | 30_000_000        |
| `--plugin-linea-max-tx-calldata-size`                    | 60_000            |
| `--plugin-linea-tx-pool-simulation-check-api-enabled`    | false             |
| `--plugin-linea-tx-pool-simulation-check-p2p-enabled`    | false             |
| `--plugin-linea-tx-pool-profitability-check-api-enabled` | true              |
| `--plugin-linea-tx-pool-profitability-check-p2p-enabled` | false             |

### Transaction validation - LineaTransactionValidatorPlugin

This plugin uses Besu's `TransactionValidatorService` to filter transactions at multiple critical lifecycle stages:
1. Block import - when a Besu validator receives a block via P2P gossip
2. Transaction pool - when a Besu node adds to its local transaction pool
3. Block production - when a Besu node builds a block

The plugin implements transaction filtering for blob transactions (EIP-4844) and delegate code transactions (EIP-7702), which can be enabled or disabled via configuration. In the future, this plugin may consolidate logic from other transaction-filtering plugins to unify transaction filtering logic.

#### CLI options

| Command Line Argument                     | Default Value |
|-------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `--plugin-linea-blob-tx-enabled`          | false         |
| `--plugin-linea-delegate-code-tx-enabled` | false         |

### Reporting rejected transactions 
The transaction selection and validation plugins can report rejected transactions as JSON-RPC calls to an external 
service. This feature can be enabled by setting the following CLI options:

| Command Line Argument                 | Default Value | Expected Values                                              |
|---------------------------------------|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--plugin-linea-rejected-tx-endpoint` | `null`        | A valid URL e.g. `http://localhost:9363` to enable reporting |
| `--plugin-linea-node-type`            | `null`        | One of `SEQUENCER`, `RPC`, `P2P`                             |

## RPC methods

### Linea Estimate Gas
#### `linea_estimateGas`

This endpoint simulates a transaction, including line count limit validation, and returns the estimated gas used 
(as the standard `eth_estimateGas` with `strict=true`) plus the estimated gas price to be used when submitting the tx. 

#### Parameters
same as `eth_estimateGas`

#### Result
```json
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": 53,
  "result": {
    "gasLimit": "0x5208",
    "baseFeePerGas": "0x7",
    "priorityFeePerGas": "0x123456"
  }
}
```

### Linea Set Extra Data
#### `linea_setExtraData`

This endpoint is used to configure the extra data based pricing, and it only makes sense to call it on the sequencer.
Internally it sets runtime pricing configuration and then calls, via the in-process RPC service, `miner_setExtraData`
and `miner_setMinGasPrice` to update internal Besu configuration, and add the extra data pricing to the future built blocks.

#### Parameters
same as `miner_setExtraData` with the added constraint that the number of bytes must be 32

#### Result
```json
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": 53,
  "result": "true"
}
```

Commit message:

feat: Compression aware block building

besu-plugins/linea-sequencer/docs/plugins.md, after:

# Linea plugins

## Shared components

### Profitability calculator
The profitability calculator is a shared component, that is used to check if a tx is profitable.
It's applied, with different configuration to:
1. `linea_estimateGas` endpoint
2. Tx validation for the txpool (if tx profitability check is enabled)
3. Tx selection during block creation

#### CLI options

| Command Line Argument                                 | Default Value |
|-------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `--plugin-linea-fixed-gas-cost-wei`                   | 0             |
| `--plugin-linea-variable-gas-cost-wei`                | 1_000_000_000 |
| `--plugin-linea-extra-data-pricing-enabled`           | false         |
| `--plugin-linea-min-margin`                           | 1.0           |
| `--plugin-linea-estimate-gas-min-margin`              | 1.0           |
| `--plugin-linea-tx-pool-min-margin`                   | 0.5           |
| `--plugin-linea-extra-data-set-min-gas-price-enabled` | true          |


### Module line count validator
The Module line count validator is a shared component, that is used to check if a tx exceeds any of the configured line count limits.
It is used in:
1. `linea_estimateGas` endpoint
2. Tx validation for the txpool (if tx simulation is enabled)
3. Tx selection during block creation

#### CLI options

| Command Line Argument                                 | Default Value        |
|-------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|
| `--plugin-linea-module-limit-file-path`               | moduleLimitFile.toml |
| `--plugin-linea-over-line-count-limit-cache-size`     | 10_000               |


### L1<>L2 bridge

These values are just passed to the ZkTracer

#### CLI Options

| Command Line Argument                  | Default Value |
|----------------------------------------|---------------|
| `--plugin-linea-l1l2-bridge-contract`  |               |
| `--plugin-linea-l1l2-bridge-topic`     |               |


## Sequencer

### Transaction selection - LineaTransactionSelectorPlugin
This plugin extends the standard transaction selection protocols employed by Besu for block creation.
It leverages the `TransactionSelectionService` to manage and customize the process of transaction selection.
This includes setting limits such as `TraceLineLimit`, `maxBlockGas`, and optionally a compression-aware blob
size limit and/or a raw block calldata limit. Block size selectors are only instantiated when their
respective CLI flag is set. The selectors are in the package `net.consensys.linea.sequencer.txselection.selectors`.

- **`--plugin-linea-blob-size-limit`** (optional): If set, enables `CompressionAwareBlockTransactionSelector`
  which compresses the RLP-encoded list of selected transactions and rejects if the compressed size plus a
  safe block header overhead exceeds the limit.
- **`--plugin-linea-max-block-calldata-size`** (optional): If set, enables `MaxBlockCallDataTransactionSelector`
  which enforces a cumulative raw calldata size limit per block.

Both can be set simultaneously (both checks run, the more restrictive one wins).

#### CLI options

| Command Line Argument                                  | Default Value        |
|--------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|
| `--plugin-linea-blob-size-limit`                       | not set (disabled)   |
| `--plugin-linea-compressed-block-header-overhead`      | 1024                 |
| `--plugin-linea-max-block-calldata-size`               | not set (disabled)   |
| `--plugin-linea-module-limit-file-path`                | moduleLimitFile.toml |
| `--plugin-linea-over-line-count-limit-cache-size`      | 10_000               |
| `--plugin-linea-max-block-gas`                         | 30_000_000L          |
| `--plugin-linea-unprofitable-cache-size`               | 100_000              |
| `--plugin-linea-unprofitable-retry-limit`              | 10                   |


### Transaction validation - LineaTransactionPoolValidatorPlugin

This plugin extends the default transaction validation rules for adding transactions to the
transaction pool. It leverages the `PluginTransactionValidatorService` to manage and customize the
process of transaction validation.
This includes setting limits such as `TraceLineLimit`, `maxTxGasLimit`, and checking the profitability
of a transaction. Per-transaction calldata size validation is optional and only enabled when
`--plugin-linea-max-tx-calldata-size` is set.
The validators are in the package `net.consensys.linea.sequencer.txpoolvalidation.validators`.

#### CLI options

| Command Line Argument                                    | Default Value     |
|----------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|
| `--plugin-linea-deny-list-path`                          | lineaDenyList.txt |
| `--plugin-linea-max-tx-gas-limit`                        | 30_000_000        |
| `--plugin-linea-max-tx-calldata-size`                    | not set (disabled)|
| `--plugin-linea-tx-pool-simulation-check-api-enabled`    | false             |
| `--plugin-linea-tx-pool-simulation-check-p2p-enabled`    | false             |
| `--plugin-linea-tx-pool-profitability-check-api-enabled` | true              |
| `--plugin-linea-tx-pool-profitability-check-p2p-enabled` | false             |

### Transaction validation - LineaTransactionValidatorPlugin

This plugin uses Besu's `TransactionValidatorService` to filter transactions at multiple critical lifecycle stages:
1. Block import - when a Besu validator receives a block via P2P gossip
2. Transaction pool - when a Besu node adds to its local transaction pool
3. Block production - when a Besu node builds a block

The plugin implements transaction filtering for blob transactions (EIP-4844) and delegate code transactions (EIP-7702), which can be enabled or disabled via configuration. In the future, this plugin may consolidate logic from other transaction-filtering plugins to unify transaction filtering logic.

#### CLI options

| Command Line Argument                     | Default Value |
|-------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `--plugin-linea-blob-tx-enabled`          | false         |
| `--plugin-linea-delegate-code-tx-enabled` | false         |

### Reporting rejected transactions 
The transaction selection and validation plugins can report rejected transactions as JSON-RPC calls to an external 
service. This feature can be enabled by setting the following CLI options:

| Command Line Argument                 | Default Value | Expected Values                                              |
|---------------------------------------|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--plugin-linea-rejected-tx-endpoint` | `null`        | A valid URL e.g. `http://localhost:9363` to enable reporting |
| `--plugin-linea-node-type`            | `null`        | One of `SEQUENCER`, `RPC`, `P2P`                             |

## RPC methods

### Linea Estimate Gas
#### `linea_estimateGas`

This endpoint simulates a transaction, including line count limit validation, and returns the estimated gas used 
(as the standard `eth_estimateGas` with `strict=true`) plus the estimated gas price to be used when submitting the tx. 

#### Parameters
same as `eth_estimateGas`

#### Result
```json
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": 53,
  "result": {
    "gasLimit": "0x5208",
    "baseFeePerGas": "0x7",
    "priorityFeePerGas": "0x123456"
  }
}
```

### Linea Set Extra Data
#### `linea_setExtraData`

This endpoint is used to configure the extra data based pricing, and it only makes sense to call it on the sequencer.
Internally it sets runtime pricing configuration and then calls, via the in-process RPC service, `miner_setExtraData`
and `miner_setMinGasPrice` to update internal Besu configuration, and add the extra data pricing to the future built blocks.

#### Parameters
same as `miner_setExtraData` with the added constraint that the number of bytes must be 32

#### Result
```json
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": 53,
  "result": "true"
}
```

## Migration

### Compression-aware block building

All block/tx size flags are now optional and only activate their respective selectors when set:

- **`--plugin-linea-blob-size-limit`**: New flag. When set, enables the compression-aware block selector which builds and compresses the RLP-encoded list of selected transactions and rejects transactions that would cause the compressed size (plus a safe block header overhead of 1024 bytes) to exceed the limit. Recommended value: 131072 (128 KB).
- **`--plugin-linea-max-block-calldata-size`** (deprecated): Still supported but deprecated. When set, enables the raw calldata block size selector (legacy behaviour) and logs a deprecation warning at startup. When not set, the selector is not instantiated. Will be removed in a future release.
- **`--plugin-linea-max-tx-calldata-size`** (deprecated): Still supported but deprecated. When set, enables the per-tx calldata pool validator and logs a deprecation warning at startup. When not set, the validator is not instantiated. Will be removed in a future release.
- Both old and new flags can be set simultaneously; both selectors will run and the more restrictive one wins.
